Practical 1
AIM: Study of Cloud Computing architecture
1.Definition of cloud:
The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and 
databases that run on those servers.

2.Definition cloud computing:
Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. 
These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, 
networking, and software.

3.Different cloud services:
Cloud computing services fall into 4 categories:
•infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
•platform as a service (PaaS),
•software as a service (SaaS)
I.Infrastructure-as-a-service(IaaS):
IaaS is the most basic category of cloud computing services that allows you rent IT 
infrastructure (servers or VM’s) from a cloud provider on a pay-as-you- go basis.

II.Platform as a service (PaaS) :
Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) refers to the supply an on-demand environment for 
developing, testing, delivering and managing software applications. It is designed to 
quickly create web or mobile apps, without worrying about setting up or managing the 
underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network and databases needed for 
development.

III.Software as a service (SaaS) :
Software-as-a-service (SaaS) is a method for delivering software applications over the 
Internet as per the demand and on a subscription basis.

5.Types of cloud:
•Private
•Public
•Hybrid
•Community
1)Public Cloud – Whole computing infrastructure is located on the premises of a cloud 
computing company that offers the cloud service.
2)Private Cloud – Hosting all your computing infrastructure yourself and is not shared. The security and control level is highest while using a private network.
3)Hybrid Cloud – using both private and public clouds, depending on their purpose. 
You host your most important applications on your own servers to keep them more secure 
and secondary applications elsewhere.
4)Community Cloud – A community cloud is shared between organizations with a common 
goal or that fit into a specific community (professional community, geographic 
community, etc.).

6.Advantages of cloud computing:
•Cost Savings: Cost saving is the biggest benefit of cloud computing. It helps you to 
save substantial capital cost as it does not need any physical hardware investments.
•Strategic edge : Cloud computing offers a competitive edge over your competitors. It 
helps you to access the latest and applications any time without spending your time 
and money on installations.
•High Speed : Cloud computing allows you to deploy your service quickly in fewer 
clicks. This faster deployment allows you to get the resources required for your 
system within fewer minutes.
•Back-up and restore data: Once the data is stored in a Cloud, it is easier to get 
the back-up and recovery of that, which is otherwise very time taking process 
on-premise.
•Automatic Software Integration: In the cloud, software integration is something that 
occurs automatically. Therefore, you don't need to take additional efforts to customize and integrate your applications as per your preferences.
•Reliability: Reliability is one of the biggest pluses of cloud computing. 
You can always get instantly updated about the changes.
•Unlimited storage capacity : The cloud offers almost limitless storage capacity. 
At any time you can quickly expand your storage capacity with very nominal monthly fees.

7.Architecture of cloud computing:
The architecture is mainly divides the cloud architecture into two parts:
1)	Front End
2)	Back End
Each end is connected to others through a network, generally to the Internet.
Front End
•The front end is the side of computer user or client.
•It involves the interfaces and the applications that are necessary to access the 
Cloud Computing system.
Back End
•The back end is the cloud section of the system.
•It involves all the resources which are necessary to give Cloud computing services.
•It includes huge data storage, virtual machines, security mechanism, services, 
deployment models, servers etc. 
•To give built-in security mechanism, traffic control and protocols is the 
responsibility of the back end.

8.Components of cloud computing:
Cloud infrastructure consists of servers, storage devices, network, cloud management 
software, deployment software, and platform virtualization.
1.Hypervisor -Hypervisor is a firmware or low-level program that acts as a Virtual Machine Manager. It allows to share the single physical instance of cloud resources between several tenants.
2.Management Software-It helps to maintain and configure the infrastructure.
3.Deployment Software-It helps to deploy and integrate the application on the cloud.
4.Network-It is the key component of cloud infrastructure. It allows to connect cloud services over the Internet. It is also possible to deliver network as a utility over the Internet, which means, the customer can customize the network route and protocol.
5.Server-The server helps to compute the resource sharing and offers other services such as resource allocation and de-allocation, monitoring the resources, providing security etc.
6.Storage-Cloud keeps multiple replicas of storage. If one of the storage resources fails, then it can be extracted from another one, which makes cloud computing more reliable


