Practical-04
AIM: Study and implementation of Storage as a Service.
Download OwnCloud from link given below. 
https://drive.google.com/open?id=1W-GgFzxnbQkpOi_oHkeR2GTqNL8vkyo2

Once you download OwnCloud, you will get the above .zip file, extract it in 
“C:\wampserver64\www”
Now go to browser and enter “http://localhost:8010/phpmyadmin/” in URL bar. 
We can see that there is no database created for OwnCloud.
Now start wamp server services and go to the browers and type localhost and 
select phpmyadmin following will appers.

Now by default password there is no password for root. We have to set password for 
root for that go to “User accounts”.

We can see that root user can be logged in through three different hosts and those are: 
“127.0.0.1”, “::1” and “localhost”.
To set password we have to click on “Edit privileges”. First we will set password for 
“localhost”.
Click on “Edit privileges”.
Click on “Change password”.
Set simple password and click on “Go”.

Password has been changed, but now it will not allow you to perform other operations.
Even if you just refresh the page you will see following results.

Just set the same password as you set in phpMyAdmin for root, save it and close it.
Now go to browser and refresh it.
Now go to browser and refresh it.
Now please applay password for remaining to root account i.e. for host “127.0.0.1” and 
“::1”. Once you finish it you will see below screen.

Now we are going to create database for our cloud. Click on “Databases”.

Enter name for database and click “Create” (even if you entered name in upper case 
MySQL will convert it into lower case).
Yes our database is created
First click on “Home”.
Once our database is created, we have to add user, for that click on “User accounts”.
Click on “Add user account”.
Set the “User name”, “Host name” and “Password” for the user, and now scroll down a 
little you we will see “Global privileges” section.
Just check “Check all” checkbox.
Scroll down little more and click on “Go”.
Now on next window we can see “Database” button, we have to assign database to the user,
for that click on “Database”.
Select the database you just created and click on “Go”
It will ask for “Database-specific privileges” just check “Check all” checkbox and 
click on “Go”.
You can see that our user is been added.
Now go to browser and enter “http://localhost:8010/owncloud/” in URL bar.
Above scree will be displayed.
Now we have to enter User name and Password for admin.
And other credentials for the user which we just created, and click on “Finish setup”.
Yes we have done it, we have installed OwnCloud on XAMPP Server.
Go to “localhost/phpmyadmin” you can see that our database is been filled with tables.










